JournalofWindEngineering&IndustrialAerodynamics220(2022)104879
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Wind Engineering Industrial Aerodynamics journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jweia
Protective effect of railway bridge wind barriers on moving trains: An experimental study
Huoyue Xianga,b, Hao Hua, Jin Zhua,b,*, Peng Hea, Yongle Lia,b, Bing Hanc aDepartment of Bridge Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, 610031, China bWind Engineering Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, 610031, Chengdu, Sichuan, PR China cSenior Engineer, Shudao Investment Group Co.Ltd, Chengdu, Sichuan, PR China
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: Wind barriers are an important wind protection facility that has been commonly used in high-speed railways to
Wind barrier ensure the ride comfort and driving safety of high-speed trains in wind-prone areas. This paper presents an
Protective effect experimental study on the protective effect of wind barriers on the moving head and tail train vehicles under
Moving train
crosswinds for the first time. This study utilized a novel wind tunnel test device of a moving train model. The
Wind tunnel test
effects of the wind speed and the height and porosity of the wind barriers on the protective effect for moving
Aerodynamic characteristic trains were investigated considering the aerodynamic characteristics of the moving train. The protective effects of the wind barrier on the head and tail vehicles were compared, and the relationship between the vehicle aerodynamic characteristics with and without employing the porous wind barrier was discussed to simplify the test conditions and improve the evaluation efficiency of the protective effect of the wind barrier. The results indicated that the protective effect of the wind barriers on the moving train varied with different yaw angles. In addition, the height and porosity of the wind barriers significantly affected the protective effect of the wind barriers. Furthermore, the relationship between the vehicle overturning moment coefficient, an important indicator for vehicle safety evaluation, with and without employing the porous wind barrier, is quantified via a
wind speed reduction coefficient. The wind speed reduction coefficient enables fast prediction of the vehicle overturning moment coefficient after the installation of porous wind barrier at any given yaw angle β, without conducting additional wind tunnel tests.
1. Introduction The protective effect of driving safety is one of the most important characteristics of wind barriers. In general, three approaches have been
The Chinese high-speed railway has entered a rapid development conventionally adopted to evaluate the protective effect of wind barstage in recent years, and consequently, an increasing number of high- riers: field measurements (Xiong et al., 2006), computational fluid dyspeed railways have been constructed in wind-prone areas (Zhang namics simulations (Mohebbi and Safaee, 2021; Yan et al., 2021) and et al., 2017). One of the important characteristics of the Chinese wind tunnel tests (Tomasini et al., 2016; Xue et al., 2020). Field meahigh-speed railway is that bridges account for a large proportion of the surements represent an ideal means to directly investigate the protective railway to satisfy the requirements of line smoothness and land pro- effect of wind barriers under realistic wind environments. For example, tection. Taking the Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railway as an example, Wilson et al. (1997) evaluated the protective effect of a wind barrier by
more than 80% of the railways are bridges. Owing to the high elevation measuring the mean ground-level pressure upstream and downstream of the bridge deck above the ground, the wind speed at the deck level is from a porous fence under different surface conditions. Xiong et al.
typically high, which may result in a large wind load being exerted on (2006) evaluated the protective effect of a wind barrier of the Lanzhou high-speed trains. To ensure the safety of moving trains when crossing Xinjiang Railway based on field measurements, in which the surface bridges under strong winds, wind barriers are often installed on both pressure and aerodynamic characteristics of a train were obtained.
sides of the bridges, with the aim of maintaining a relatively low wind Based on the method of machine vision to detect the vibration offset of speed environment for the train (Xiang et al., 2014). rolling stock, Li et al. (2011) conducted a full-scale vehicle test on the * Corresponding author. Department of Bridge Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, 610031, China.
E-mail address: zhujin19880102@126.com (J. Zhu).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2021.104879
Received 10 August 2021; Received in revised form 13 December 2021; Accepted 13 December 2021
Availableonline17December2021
0167-6105/©2021ElsevierLtd.Allrightsreserved.
H. Xiang et al. J o u r n a l o f W i n d E n g i n e e r i n g & I n d u s t r i a l A e r o d y n a m i c s 220(2022)104879 lateral vibration offset of a box car under strong wind, and compared the support vector regression model (Xiang et al., 2017b). To avoid protective effects of different windbreak walls. One important concern simplifying the porous wind barriers in the wind tunnel test simulations, of field measurement, particularly in complex environments, is that the Ren et al. (2019) adopted multi-scale wind tunnel test models to discuss accuracy of the measured result is inevitably affected by many factors, the effect of wind barriers on the aerodynamic characteristics of trains.
such as instrument errors and man-made errors. In the study of the In addition, Su et al. (2017) investigated the airflow field of full-scale protective effect of wind barriers for trains, there have been fewer ap- wind barriers based on a wind tunnel test.
plications of the field measurement approach compared with those of The abovementioned studies were all based on static wind tunnel the other two approaches. tests, and the main disadvantage of the static wind tunnel tests is that
Numerical simulation is a cost-effective approach to study the pro- they cannot simulate the relative motion between the train and the tective effect of wind barriers for trains. Wang et al. (2015) used a 2-D structure. The aerodynamic characteristics of moving vehicles are vehicle-bridge model as the research object, and investigated the aero- considerably different from those of stationary vehicles. Previous nudynamic characteristics of trains considering the effect of wind barriers merical studies have shown that the protective effect of the wind barrier with different porosities. Mohebbi et al. (2019) investigated the same may be quite different under different wind speeds and vehicle speeds theme by considering a 3-D model of a train. Gu et al. (2020) studied the (Xiang et al., 2015a; Deng et al., 2021).
protective effect of corrugated wind barriers with different bending To study the protective effect of wind barriers on moving vehicles, angles via numerical simulations. Considering a long-span cable-stayed Baker (1986) conducted a wind tunnel test on an advanced passenger bridge as the research background, He et al. (2019) studied the effect of train model with a scale of 1/50, and studied the effect of wind fences on wind barriers on the aerodynamic characteristics of trains under cross- the aerodynamic forces applied on the train. However, the scale of the winds. Based on the improved delayed detached eddy simulation, Gu model was relatively small, which made it difficult to accurately simuet al. (2021) studied the effect of different wind barrier lengths on the late the protective effect of wind fences. Charuvisit et al. (2004) studied static train model and provided guidance for the selection of the wind the effect of wind barriers on the aerodynamic forces on vehicles passing
barrier length in static wind tunnel tests. Based on the numerical through bridge towers. During the test, the movement of the vehicle simulation method, Xiang et al. (2015a) employed a multiple rotating models was realized by the linear motor guideways with a maximum reference (MRF) to simulate the relative motion between the train and vehicle speed of up to 3.0 m/s. Based on the wind tunnel test device of the ground. The protective effect of railway wind barriers at yaw angles moving vehicles, Xiang et al. (2018) studied the effect of wind barriers of 0–π/4 were discussed, and the airflow field structure near the train on the aerodynamic forces on moving vehicles. The scale ratio of the was analysed. For porous wind barriers, it is typically difficult to achieve model was 1/20, and the maximum vehicle speed during the test was 10 full geometric similarity during the numerical simulation. To overcome m/s. The results indicated that the protective effect of the wind barriers
this difficulty, Deng et al. (2021) accurately simulated wind barriers under different yaw angles was significantly different, and there exists based on the porous media theory and studied the effect of the wind most unfavorable yaw angle. The studies of the protective effect of wind barriers on the aerodynamic force on a train and on the flow field barriers on large-scale moving automobiles have provided many benestructure under crosswinds in a bridge tunnel section. Most of the cur- ficial results. However, the shapes of the automobile and the train are rent numerical studies are based on 2D numerical models. However, the considerably different, and their aerodynamic characteristics are also
2D numerical simulation cannot simulate the relative motion between different.
the train and the ground/bridge, and the effect of the 3D shape of the In summary, the current research conventionally adopts the static train head cannot be well considered. Although the use of a 3D nu- train model during the tests, while very limited research focuses on the merical model can significantly reduce the lack of accuracy, it requires moving train model. In addition, among the limited research with regard extensive computational resources. to the moving train model, the emphasis is usually placed on the middle
As mentioned above, the field measurement approach often results in vehicle, while the head/tail vehicle receives little attention. It is low accuracy, while the 3D numerical simulation approach often de- meaningful to investigate the protective effect of the wind barrier on the mands extensive computational resources; therefore, the wind tunnel moving head and tail train vehicles due to their complex aerodynamic test is typically adopted as an alternative for the study of the protective configurations. This study represents the first attempt to experimentally effect of wind barriers for trains. At present, two types of wind tunnel investigate the protective effect of wind barriers on a moving train with test methods are employed to investigate the protective effect of the particular focus on the head and tail vehicle, based on a novel wind wind barrier, namely the static and dynamic test methods. The static tunnel test device. The remainder of this study is organised as follows. In
model wind tunnel test method is commonly used because it is easy to Section 2, the novel wind tunnel test device is introduced in detail. In implement. Coleman and Baker et al. (1992) tested the aerodynamic Section 3, the data processing method is presented. In Section 4, the test forces applied on a train behind a wind fence. Hashmi et al. (2019) results are compared and analysed. In addition, the effects of train investigated the effect of windbreak walls with varying angles of tran- speed, the height and porosity of the wind barrier on the aerodynamic sition regions on a passenger train. Kozmar et al. (2012) studied the field force applied on the moving train are discussed. The difference in the characteristics on the bridge deck and the wake of the wind barrier using wind barrier protective effect on the head and tail train vehicles is the particle image velocimetry technique, and further discussed the ef- examined. In addition, the relationship between the vehicle overturning
fect of wind attack angles. He et al. (2014) studied the effect of a wind moment coefficient, an important indicator for vehicle safety evaluabarrier on the surface pressure distribution of a 32 m simply supported tion, with and without employing the porous wind barrier, is quantified box girder and a CRH2 train model using the pressure measurement via a wind speed reduction coefficient.
method, and discussed the effect of the louvre-type wind barrier on the aerodynamic characteristics of the train (He et al., 2019). Ogueta-Gu- 2. Wind tunnel test method ti´errez et al. (2014) studied the effect of different types of bird protection barriers on the aerodynamic characteristics of a train through static The tests were conducted in the XNJD-3 wind tunnel at Southwest wind tunnel tests. Using wind tunnel tests, Xiang et al. (2015b) discussed Jiaotong University. The XNJD-3 wind tunnel is 36.00 m in length, the effect of the height and porosity of the wind barrier on the aero- 22.50 m in width, and 4.50 m in height. The turbulence intensity of the dynamic force applied on both the train and the wind barrier, and free-stream flow, Iz, was less than 1.5% (Xiang et al., 2017a). For clarity
Kozmar et al. (2014) optimized the height and porosity of roadway wind of description, the test device was divided into four parts: train model, barriers for bridges. Xiang et al. (2014) further evaluated the protective bridge model, drive control system, and test system. The overall layout effect of wind barriers using data envelopment analysis (DEA), and of the testing system is illustrated in Fig. 1.
optimized the protective performance of the wind barrier based on the The CRH3 train (Xiang et al., 2015a) was employed as the prototype
Fig. 1. Schematic view of the testing system.
train model in the present study. For ease of manufacturing, some details in Fig. 2. For ease of testing, some of the details were omitted, including of the CRH3 train were ignored, such as the wheelsets, bogies, panto- the rail slabs, overhead lines, maintaining roadways and other affiliated graphs, and gaps between carriages. In addition, to reduce the influence facilities. In addition, to eliminate the effect of the wind tunnel of the Reynolds number on the aerodynamic force on trains, the boundary on the train, the height between the bridge deck and the experimental model adopted a scale of 1/20, which had full-scale di- ground was set as 6H. As shown in Fig. 3, to ensure the aerodynamic mensions of 3.30 m (width; denoted as B) ×3.50 m (height; denoted as shape of the bridge, the steel skeleton of the bridge model was formed by
H), as shown in Fig. 2. All dimensions are full-scale dimensions in this splicing the square steel, which was wrapped with ABS boards outside study, unless otherwise specified. In addition, to further reduce the ef- the skeleton. As such, the flatness and smoothness of the bridge deck was fect of vibrational inertia force on the experimental results during the ensured. A wind barrier with a long strip opening was selected for the test, the model was made of expended polypropylene (EPP) material test, as shown in Fig. 4. The wind barrier and bridge were connected with a total mass of 2.22 kg. using L-shaped connectors.
To investigate the protective effect of wind barrier on a moving train The train model of the test device was driven by high-speed precision with particular focus on the head and tail vehicle as well as to verify the sliders on a precision linear slide rail. The slide rail and sliders have the proposed testing facility, the train model was divided into three seg- advantages of high precision and good abrasion resistance, and the ments, T1, T2, and T3, respectively, as shown in Fig. 1. The lengths of clearance between the two was less than 20 μm. Moreover, they were them were 4.80H, 2.06H, and 3.14H, respectively. T1 segment was the applied to a moving test device for the first time. The sliders exhibited main focus on the present study. The sensor was implemented in T1 good stability during the test. The linear slide rail was installed below segment to facilitate the measurement of the aerodynamic force. the bridge deck, and the servo motors at both ends drove the slider
Moreover, servo motors were used in the wind tunnel test device. This movement through the synchronous belts. Both sides of the servo momade it possible for the model to move forward and backward. The T1 tors’ power were 3 kW, and the distance between the two was 12 m. In segment was regarded as the head vehicle when the train model moved addition, the aluminium profile between the servo motors could limit forward, whereas it was regarded as the tail vehicle when the train the relative motion between them. The aluminium profile was adopted model moved in the reverse direction. The experimental results of the mainly for two main reasons. The first reason is that the aluminium middle vehicle (T2 segment) in this study were thus employed only for profile helps to balance the tension of the synchronous belts. More verifying the feasibility of the proposed testing facility. Meanwhile, the importantly, by firmly attaching the sliding rail to the aluminium pro-
T2 and T3 segments also served as the aerodynamic transitional seg- file, the aluminium profile provided sufficient stiffness to the sliding rail, ments, as typical high-speed train usually consists of head, middle and thus avoiding a large deflection of the sliding rail under a high-speed tail vehicles during real operation. These three segments were separated moving train. As shown in Fig. 5, the aluminium profile was conwith a longitudinal spacing less than 1 cm such that each segment nected to the pier through a horizontal adjustment plate. The horizontal vibrated independently during the tests. This allowed the investigation adjustment plate was adjustable in the vertical direction. Before the into the protective effect of wind barrier on T1 segment by avoiding the aluminium profile was installed, the adjustment plates on all the piers influence of the other two segments. were adjusted to an equal height to ensure that the slide rail was placed
Because the prestressed concrete simply supported box girder horizontally.
bridges account for more than 90% of the high-speed railway bridges in A six-component force and moment sensor was used for data
China, its section geometry was adopted in the present study, as shown acquisition. The sensor was produced by the ATI company. The key parameters of the sensor were as follows: the sampling frequency was 1 kHz, the z-axis range was ±200 N, the x-axis and y-axis ranges were both ±65 N, and the range of the moment in the three axis was ±5 N m. In addition, the vertical distance from the sensor center to the center of the
Fig. 3. Photograph of moving train model in wind tunnel tests (without
Fig. 2. Schematic view of moving train model in wind tunnel tests. wind barrier).
train cross-section was 0.26H, and the horizontal distance was 0.07H, as shown in Fig. 2.
The connection between the vehicle and sensor was illustrated in
Fig. 6. As shown in Fig. 6 (a), the right-hand side of the sensor was connected with T-Bracket, and the T-Bracket was fixed through its base with the steel plate. The steel plate was attached firmly to the vehicle model. Meanwhile, the left-hand side of the sensor was connected with the sensor bracket, and the latter was fixed at the L-Bracket (see Figs. 2, 3 and 5). The reasons for the design of such connection between the vehicle and sensor were as follows. First, the longitudinal movement of the vehicle model was powered by the servo motor synchronous belt through the L-Bracket. Because the force in the longitudinal direction was the largest one among all forces, the T-Bracket was adopted such that the z-axis of the sensor (see Fig. 6 (b)) with the largest meter range was in consistent with the direction of the vehicle longitudinal movement. Second, the vehicle model was made of expended polypropylene which has relative low stiffness. In view of this, the steel plate was
introduced to increase the contact area between the sensor and the vehicle, which ensured the vehicle model was intact during the test. The longitudinal movement of the vehicle model was powered by the servo motor synchronous belt through the L-Bracket. Such connection design
Fig. 4. Photograph of moving train model in wind tunnel tests (with ensures that all the forces were transmitted from the servo motor synwind barrier).
chronous belt to the vehicle model through the sensor. As a result, all the forces applied to the vehicle model could be accurately measured during the wind tunnel test.
The entire process of train model travelling along the bridge can be divided into three stages: acceleration stage, steady stage, and deceleration stage. Therefore, achieving a relatively high train speed in the steady stage requires a relatively long time duration (or long travelling distance) in the acceleration/deceleration stage. The acceleration and deceleration distance of the entire testing facility was limited by many factors such as the motor power, train mass, and sensor range. Considering the above factors, the acceleration and deceleration distance of the
Table 1
Parameters of each stage during the test.
Stage Travelling Maximum Minimum Acceleration distance (m) mean travelling (m⋅s2) travelling time (s) speed (m/s)
Acceleration 1.60 6 0.27 45 stage
Steady stage 4.80 12 0.4 0
Deceleration 1.60 6 0.27 45
Fig. 5. Schematic view of internal structure of the test device. stage
Fig. 6. Connection between the vehicle and sensor: (a) schematic view; (b) photo of the connection during the test.
train was finally set to 1.6 m. The parameters for each stage are listed in √̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
Table 1. U r = U2+V2 (6)
Yaw angle:
3. Data processing ( )
U β=arctan (7)
The sign convention of the aerodynamic force components for the V moving train under crosswinds is shown in Fig. 7. The aerodynamic coefficients can be expressed in two different ways, depending on the where, Fy(β, Hw, ω), Fz(β, Hw, ω), Mx(β, Hw, ω), My(β, Hw, ω), and Mz(β, wind speed. The first is the definition of the wind speed relative to the Hw, ω) are the values of the lift force, side force, rolling moment, yawing train, and the second is the definition of the incoming wind speed. The moment and pitching moment when the yaw angle is β, the wind barrier aerodynamic coefficients of the two definitions can be converted into height is Hw, and the wind barrier porosity is ω, respectively; ρ is the air each other. The first definition is adopted in this study. The relationship density; V is the train speed; U is the incoming wind speed; and B, L, and between the yaw angle, wind speed relative to the train, and model H are the width, length and height of the train model, respectively.
velocity is shown in Fig. 7. To discuss the protective effect of the wind barrier, the overturning
Lift force coefficient: moment coefficient of the train around the track is adopted in this present study. The overturning moment coefficient, Ct, i(β, Hw, ω), can be
F(β,H ,ω)
C Fy (β,H w ,ω)= y 1ρU2 w HL (1) calculated using the three-component coefficient of the train (Xiang
2 r et al., 2014, 2015a; 2015b).
C t,i (β,H w ,ω)= C Fz (β,H w ,ω)Hy+C Fy (β,H B2 w ,ω)Hx+C Mx (β,H w ,ω)B2 = M 0 t . , 5 i ( ρ β U ,H 2 w B , 2 ω L ) (8) r
Side force coefficient: where Mt, i(β, Hw, ω) denotes the value of the overturning moment when
F(β,H ,ω)
the yaw angle is β, the wind barrier height is Hw, and the wind barrier
C Fz (β,H w ,ω)= z 1ρU2 w HL (2) porosity is ω, respectively; the subscript i serves as an indicator on
2 r whether the wind barriers are adopted, i.e., i =wd and i =0 indicates the
Rolling moment coefficient: experimental results are obtained with and without considering the wind barriers; x =0.74 m (0.21 H) and y =1.96 m (0.56 H) are the arm
M(β,H ,ω)
C Mx (β,H w ,ω)= 1 x ρU2B w 2L (3) of the force (Xiang et al., 2015a).
2 r Accordingly, the protective effect of the wind barriers can be expressed as the ratio of the overturning moment coefficient after
Yawing moment coefficient:
employing the wind barriers to that without considering the wind bar-
C My (β,H w ,ω)= 1 y ρU2B w 2L (4) riers, as expressed below.
Pitching mom 2 ent r coefficient: ζ(β,H w ,ω)= C t,wd C (β t,0 , ( H β) w ,ω) (9)
C Mz (β,H w ,ω)= 1 z ρU2B w 2L (5) where ζ(β, Hw, ω) is an indicator of the protective effect of the wind
2 r barriers after employing the wind barriers with a height of Hw, and
Wind speed relative to the train: porosity of ω, at a yaw angle of β; Ct, 0(β) denotes the overturning moment coefficient without the wind barriers at a yaw angle of β; Ct, wd (β, Hw, ω) denotes the overturning moment coefficient after employing the wind barriers with a height of Hw, and porous ratio of ω, at a yaw angle of β.
Naturally, the vehicle overturning moment coefficient in Eq. (9) decreases after adopting the wind barriers, due to the protective effect provided by the wind barrier. As a result, ζ is less than 1 and typically ranges from 0 to 1 (0 ≤ ζ < 1), according to the above equation.
Obviously, lower ζ indicates better protective effect provided by the wind barrier. In particular, ζ =0 indicates that the vehicle overturning moment coefficient reduces to 0, representing the best protective effect of the wind barrier could provide. However, for the wind barrier with a higher height than that of the optimum wind barrier, the wind tunnel tests results show that the sign of the vehicle overturning moment coefficient, Ct, wd (β, Hw, ω), reverses after reaching 0. As a result, the protective effect, ζ, becomes a negative value and is less than 0 (ζ <0).
Under the condition of ζ <0, the protective effect of the wind barrier, even with a higher height, actually reduces compared with the optimum wind barrier with a relatively lower height. More discussion with regard to the experimentally determined ζ will elaborated later in Section 4.
After the test was completed, the average value of the test data of the train in the steady stage was calculated to obtain the aerodynamic
Fig. 7. Sign convention of aerodynamic force components on the vehicle.
selected for the analysis. Taking the working condition of a wind speed of 6 m/s and yaw angle of 50◦as an example, Fig. 10 shows the longitudinal force time-history curve of the T1 segment model. The time-history data was filtered using an 8 Hz low-pass filter. It is clearly shown in Fig. 10 that after filtering, the train model experienced different stages during the entire movement process, that is, the static, acceleration, steady, deceleration and free vibration stages. The five-component force of the train was filtered by the above low-pass filter, and then the five-component force data was used. The mean value was calculated according to the steady stage of the longitudinal force time-history curve.
Fig. 11 shows the time-history curve of the five-component force in the steady stage after filtering. It can be seen from this figure that the aerodynamic force on the train in the steady stage is relatively stable with significantly small fluctuations, indicating that the test device exhibits good performance.
To verify the feasibility of the test method in the present study, the aerodynamic coefficients of the middle vehicle without the bridge structure measured by Li et al. (2018) are compared with those of the T2 segment measured by the forward and reverse motions without the wind
Fig. 8. Five-component coefficients of the train in static state.
barrier in the study, as shown in Fig. 12. Fig. 12 shows that the test results in this study have similar trends to those in the previous study.
coefficient of the train. To achieve this, it was necessary to ensure in
Additionally, the lift force coefficient and side force coefficient are advance that the airflow field of the longitudinal train height along the smaller than those of their work. This may be because the bridge was bridge was uniform. Fig. 8 shows the five-component aerodynamic coneglected in their study. Thus, the test method used in the present study efficients of the train at different positions under the static state of the is feasible.
crosswinds. It is observed that the five-component coefficients of the vehicle exhibit little variation at different positions along the bridge
4. Results and discussion longitudinal axis, which indirectly indicates the flow field at the train height is generally uniform (Xiang et al., 2017a).
Previous studies have shown that the aerodynamic characteristics of
During the train movement, the noise caused by train vibration and a train under crosswinds are the most unfavorable (Li et al., 2021).
track irregularity was inevitable, which could affect the testing data. To
Therefore, in this study, the train motion direction was normal to the minimise the impact of noise on the testing data, a low pass filter with a wind direction. The yaw angles of the train can be adjusted by varying prescribed cut-off frequency is employed and applied to the measured the train speed.
aerodynamic force time histories in advance. The filter has proved to exert little effect on the five-component coefficients of the vehicle by
Xiang et al. (2017). Since the cut-off frequency of the low pass filter 4.1. Effect of wind speed needs to be less than the natural frequencies of the T1 and T2 segments, the natural frequencies of the T1 and T2 segments should be first The train model used in the present study had an arc body, indicating determined. In view of this, the side force time histories of the T1 and T2 that the Reynolds number may have a significant effect on the aerosegments during the free vibration stage, in the absence of wind, i.e., dynamic force on the train. Therefore, it is necessary to study the variunder no wind test condition, were adopted for the spectrum analysis. ation in the aerodynamic forces at different wind speeds. In the present
The results of the spectrum analysis are displayed in Fig. 9. As shown in study, three different wind speeds were adopted, i.e., 6 m/s, 8 m/s, and
Fig. 9, it is noted that the T1 and T2 segments had different natural 10 m/s. In addition, during the test, a wind barrier with a height of frequencies, because their masses were different, i.e., the mass of the T1 0.71H (2.5 m) and porosity of 50% was adopted.
segment and T2 segment are 0.99 kg and 0.47 kg, respectively. In the The variation of the aerodynamic coefficients of the head vehicle present study, the T1 segment model with a small natural frequency was under different wind speeds is shown in Fig. 13 (a) ~ (e). According to
Fig. 9. Power spectrum curve of side force.
Fig. 13 (a) ~ (e), the maximum absolute error of each aerodynamic coefficient under three different wind speeds and the corresponding yaw angle can be calculated, as tabulated in Table 2. As shown in Table 2,
The maximum absolute error for CFy, CFz, CMx, CMy, CM is 0.05, 0.08,
0.02, 0.05 and 0.05, respectively, which means that the five-component aerodynamic coefficients of the train do not change significantly with an increase in the wind speed. This shows that in the range of the test wind speed and vehicle speed, the effect of wind speed on the aerodynamic coefficients is small, indicating the Reynolds number insensitivity of the test device. In addition, with an increase in the yaw angle, the lift force coefficient and side force coefficient demonstrate an increasing trend, which is consistent with the test results of Li’s study (2018) on the middle vehicle and Baker’s study (1986) on the head vehicle. The protective effect of wind barrier, ζ, on the head vehicle under different wind yaw angles and wind speeds is plotted in Fig. 13 (f). Note that lower ζ suggests better protective effect by the wind barrier, according to Eq.
(9). When the wind yaw angle β is greater than 70◦, the wind barrier provides the same protection for the vehicle, as the ζ shows very small variations. However, for β less than 70◦(β <70◦), ζ increases with the decrease of β, meaning that the wind protection weakens at high vehicle
Fig. 10. Time-history curve of longitudinal force.
speed (β =arctan(U/V), and smaller β suggests a higher vehicle speed V under same wind speed U). Taking the case with a wind speed of 8 m/s as an example, the protective effect of wind barrier increased by 40% when the yaw angle increased from 35◦to 70◦.
4.2. Comparison between head vehicle and tail vehicle
Previous studies (Xiang et al., 2015a; X. He et al., 2019) have shown that the airflow forms a negative pressure zone behind the wind barrier under crosswinds. When the train passes through the wind barrier, the head nose pushes the airflow outwards, and the end nose draws the airflow inwards, causing the 3D airflow around the head and end nose to vary significantly (Xiang et al., 2015a). Therefore, it is meaningful to compare the protective effect of the wind barrier on the moving head vehicle and moving tail vehicle. To the authors’ best knowledge, this is the first attempt to investigate the protective effect of the wind barrier on the head and tail vehicles by using a wind tunnel test of a moving train.
To compare the protective effect of wind barriers on the head and tail vehicles, the aerodynamic coefficients of the head and tail vehicles and the protective effect of the wind barriers are shown in Fig. 14. For comparison purposes, a wind barrier with a height of 2.5 m and porosity
Fig. 11. Time-history curve of the force and moment in the steady stage after filtering. of 50% was set for both cases. In addition, to obtain a large range of yaw angle test data, a low test wind speed was preferred. At the same time,
Fig. 12. Comparison of lift force coefficient (CFy) and side force coefficient (CFz) of middle vehicle (U =8 m/s).
Fig. 13. Aerodynamic coefficients of the head vehicle and protective effect of wind barrier (Hw =0.71 H, ω =50%): (a) CFy; (b) CFz; (c) CMx; (d) CMy; (e) CMz; (f) ζ.
considering testing safety, the vehicle speed cannot be set too high. At
Table 2
low wind speed, the aerodynamic force on the train was low and the test
Maximum absolute error of the aerodynamic coefficients on the head vehicle.
accuracy was poor. Therefore, the test wind speed was set to 8 m/s.
Aerodynamic coefficients CFy CFz CMx CMy CM As shown in Fig. 14 (a), the lift coefficient of both the head and tail
Absolute maximum error 0.05 0.08 0.02 0.05 0.05 vehicle increases with the increase of yaw angle. Different from the lift
Corresponding yaw angle (◦) 80 65 65 65 65 coefficient, the side, rolling moment and pitching moment coefficients exhibit small variations under different yaw angles, as indicated in
Fig. 14 (b), (c) and (e), respectively. In particular, it is observed in
Fig. 14 (b) that the side coefficient of the head vehicle is larger than that
Fig. 14. Aerodynamic coefficients of the head and tail vehicle and protective effect of wind barrier (U =8 m/s, Hw =2.5 m (0.71H), ω =50%): (a) CFy; (b) CFz; (c) CMx; (d) CMy; (e) CMz; (f) ζ.
of the tail vehicle. Similar phenomenon is also observed in Ref. (Xiang and leeward sides of the head vehicle is larger than that of the tail et al., 2015a). This possible explanation is as follows. During the vehicle, resulting in larger side coefficient. Fig. 14 (d) shows the variamovement of the train, a negative pressure zone is formed between the tion of yawing moment coefficient of the head and tail vehicles under windward side of the vehicle and wind barrier. Meanwhile, negative different yaw angles. It is found that the sign of the yawing moment pressure at the windward side of head vehicle is reduced due to the coefficient of the two vehicles is opposite. This may be due to the air in compressed air in front of the head vehicle, while that of the tail vehicle front of the head vehicle is compressed, while it is opposite for the air is enhanced due to suction effect behind the tail vehicle. Note that the behind the tail vehicle.
wind pressures at the leeward side of both the head and tail vehicles are The protective effect, ζ, of wind barrier on both the head and tail similar. As a result, the air pressure difference between the windward vehicles under different yaw angles is plotted in Fig. 14 (e). Note that lower ζ suggests better protective effect by the wind barrier, according wind barrier is weakened at higher vehicle speed. In particular, it is to Eq. (9). When the yaw angle β is greater than 70◦, the wind barrier interesting to note that ζ of the tail vehicle reverses its sign under β of provides the same protection for both vehicles. However, for β less than 35◦, suggesting the over protection of the wind barrier. The reason is as
70◦, the protective effect by the wind barrier on these two vehicles are follows. Under β of 35◦, the lift coefficient is quite small (see Fig. 14 (a)), quite different. For the tail vehicle as plotted in red line in Fig. 14 (e), ζ and the rolling moment coefficient is negative (see Fig. 14 (c)). Meandecreases with the decrease of β (for β <70◦), meaning that the wind while, the vehicle speed is also relatively high (as is β small), which protection gets better at higher vehicle speed (β = arctan(U/V), and forms a relatively large negative pressure zone between the vehicle smaller β suggests a higher vehicle speed V under same wind speed U). windward side and the wind barrier, reversing the sign of the side force
This is opposite for the head vehicle, i.e., the wind protection by the of the tail vehicle (see Fig. 14 (b)). Consequently, the ζ of the tail vehicle
Fig. 15. Aerodynamic coefficients of the head vehicle and protective effect of wind barrier (U =8 m/s, ω =0%): (a) CFy; (b) CFz; (c) CMx; (d) CMy; (e) CMz; (f) ζ.
reverses its sign under β of 35◦. However, the wind protection by the effect ζ increases from 0.2 to about 0.3 when the yaw angle β reduces wind barrier on the tail vehicle is still excellent, since the ζ is very close from 50◦to 35◦. When Hw =2.5 m, the protective effect ζ reverse its sign to 0. Overall, the protection provided by the wind barrier on the tail from positive to negative (ζ < 0), indicating that the overprotective vehicle is better than that on the head vehicle, especially at high vehicle effect phenomenon occurs. However, it should also be noticed that speed. smaller ζ suggests better protective effect of the wind barrier. Therefore, even the overprotective effect phenomenon occurs, the wind protection
4.3. Effect of height of wind barrier provided by the wind barrier with the height of 2.5 m is still better than that with the height of 2.0 m, because the absolute value of ζ for the
As far as the protection of the wind barrier on moving trains is wind barrier with the height of 2.5 m is smaller and closer to 0.
considered, there exists an optimum height for the wind barrier, according to research in Refs. (Ren et al., 2019; Zhang et al., 2017). When 4.4. Effect of porosity of wind barrier the height is less than the optimum height, the protection of the wind barrier on moving trains generally increases with the height. After the Since a wind barrier with a porosity of 0% has a significant overheight exceeds the optimum height, the protection by the wind barrier protective effect on the train, such a wind barrier is undoubtedly a waste remains the same level as that with optimum height. Moreover, in of resources. Moreover, the porous wind barriers are typically adopted practice, the budget for the construction of the wind barrier increases in bridge design nowadays. Therefore, it is necessary to study the effect with the height of the wind barrier. Therefore, it is of particular of wind barrier porosity on the protection of a moving train. To inves-
importance to investigate the effect of the height of the wind barrier on tigate the protective effect of porous wind barrier, the wind barrier with the protective effect of the moving trains. a height of 2.5 m is selected. The five-component aerodynamic co-
Fig. 15 (a)~(e) shows the variation of the aerodynamic coefficients efficients of the head vehicle and the protective effect of the wind barrier of the head vehicle before and after employing the wind barrier with with various porosities are shown in Fig. 16. A porosity of 0% indicates various heights. It is clearly shown in Fig. 15 that the vehicle running that the wind barrier is solid, and a porosity of 100% indicates that there safety is greatly improved after the installation of the wind barrier, as is no wind barrier.
significant reductions are achieved in terms of the absolute value of all From Fig. 16 (a) ~ (e), it can be seen that the porosity of the wind the vehicle aerodynamic coefficients. The reason is that the existence of barrier has a significant effect on the aerodynamic coefficients of the the wind barrier changes the position of attachment and separation train. It is observed from Fig. 16 (a) that the vehicle lift force coefficient points of airflow at the train top. In addition, as the wind barrier height increases with the increase of the porosity of the wind barrier. This increases from 2.0 m to 2.5 m, the absolute value of the vehicle aero- phenomenon is also reported by He et al. (2014b). The possible reason is dynamic coefficients CFy, CMx, CMy, CMz decreases significantly, as as follows. As the wind barrier porosity increases, the shear layer moves
observed in Fig. 15 (a), (c), (d), (e). However, as the wind barrier con- downwards, leading to an increase of the wind speed on the vehicle top tinues to increase from 2.5 m to 3.0 m, the absolute values of these four surface. As a result, the wind pressure on the vehicle top surface deaerodynamic coefficients under the two types wind barriers are close to creases. Meanwhile, although the wind speed on the bottom of the each other. The vehicle aerodynamic coefficients CFy and CMx even vehicle also increases as the shear layer moves downwards, the correshows a small increment as the wind barrier height increases from 2.5 m sponding increase rate is quite limited compared to that at the vehicle to 3.0 m. The vehicle side force coefficient CFz exhibit very small vari- top surface. Therefore, larger wind barrier porosity results in larger ations after employing the wind barrier with various heights. Therefore, pressure difference (acting upward) between the vehicle top and bottom
the above findings indicate there exists an optimum height for the wind surfaces, which leads to larger vehicle lift force coefficient. The above barrier. explanation also applies for the trend of vehicle side force coefficient
It is also interesting to note that after employing the wind barrier under various wind barrier porosities as shown in Fig. 16 (b). To be with a height of 2.0 m, the vehicle lift coefficient is still appreciable, as specific, the wind speed on the vehicle windward side increases with the shown in Fig. 15 (a). There may be two reasons for this phenomenon. increase of the porosity of the wind barrier, while the wind speed on the
Firstly, the shear layer formed by the flow around the wind barrier acts vehicle leeward side changes slightly under various wind barrier poon the curved top of the train, which causes the separation point of the rosities. This indicates that a large wind barrier porosity leads to a large top airflow to move backward, and then increases the wind speed of the vehicle side force coefficient. In addition, it is observed from Fig. 16 (c) top surface and decreases the wind pressure. Secondly, compared with that the roll moment coefficients are insensitive to the yaw angle. The other wind barriers, the change of wind speed at the bottom of the absolute of CMx after employing the wind barrier with porosity of 30% is vehicle is relatively small, and the wind pressure of the bottom is rela- less than that with porosity of 50% and 100%.
tively large, resulting in a relatively large lift force of the vehicle. Similar As shown in Fig. 16 (f), when the wind barrier porosity rate is 0, it phenomena were also observed in the static model wind tunnel test has an overprotective effect on the train. When the porosity rate is 30% (Xiang et al., 2015b). When the height of the train increases from 2.0 m and 50%, there is no overprotective effect, which may be due to the to 2.5 m, the lift coefficient varies greatly under the same yaw angle, excessive porosity rate of the selected wind barrier. For the porous wind which indicates that the top airflow of the train plays a major role in the barrier, when β ≥60◦, the protective effect does not change significantly lift coefficient. For a wind barrier with a porosity of 0 (solid barrier), a with an increase or decrease in the yaw angle, and remains unchanged in
low-pressure zone and reverse flow exists over the decks when the flow general, but the effect of wind barrier porosity on the protective effect is gets through the solid wind barrier. resulting in changes in the direction more prominent. When β <60◦, the protective effect of the wind barrier of the side force on the train, as shown in Fig. 15 (b). This indicates that is weak. However, with a decrease in the yaw angle, the protective effect the wind barrier has an overprotective effect on the side force and the of the two types of porous wind barriers on the train tends to be side force coefficients are not sensitive to the wind barrier height. As consistent, which indicates that the effect of the porosity on the proshown in Fig. 15 (c), the direction of the roll moment changes after tective effect of the moving train decreases with the decrease in the yaw employing the wind barriers. This may be because a negative pressure angle.
zone is created between the wind barriers and the train. This is beneficial for the safe operation of the train. 4.5. Approximate calculation of aerodynamic coefficient of the train
The protective effects of wind barrier with the heigh of 2.0 m, 2.5 m, and 3.0 m on the head vehicle are also compared, as illustrated in Fig. 15 The aforementioned discussions show that the vehicle aerodynamic (f). As shown in Fig. 15 (f), the protection of wind barrier with a height coefficients and the resultant overturning moment coefficient (an of 2.0 m actually weakens under small yaw angle, i.e., the protective important indicator for vehicle safety evaluation) are influenced by
Fig. 16. Aerodynamic coefficients of the head vehicle and protective effect of wind barrier (U =8 m/s, Hw =0.71H (2.5 m)): (a) CFy; (b) CFz; (c) CMx; (d) CMy; (e) CMz; (f) ζ.
many factors, including vehicle speed, wind speed, and height and To achieve this, a new parameter termed as the reduction coefficient porosity of the wind barrier. In practice, it is almost impossible to of wind speed is employed to quantify the relationship between the consider all the possible combinations of the above factors during the vehicle aerodynamic characteristics with and without employing the wind tunnel tests, as it is costly and time consuming. In view of this, this porous wind barrier, which is briefly introduced herein. When the section proposes an approach which allows fast prediction of the vehicle incoming wind flows through the wind barrier, the wind immediately overturning moment coefficient after the installation of a certain type of behind the wind barrier is the same. In other words, the influence of porous wind barrier at any given yaw angle β, based on the available wind barrier on the incoming wind is equivalent to applying a reduction
experimental data. factor to the incoming wind. Therefore, after the installation of the wind barrier on the bridge, the wind speed behind the wind barrier decreases, First, the overturning moment coefficient of the train model before resulting in a reduced yaw angle due to the combination of reduced wind the installation of the wind barriers, Ct, 0 (β), are experimentally obspeed and the vehicle speed. When the direction of the incoming wind is tained based on Eq. (8). Since limited test conditions can be realized in normal to the axial direction of the bridge, the reduced yaw angle of the the wind tunnel, only five pairs of (Ct, 0, β) are available as shown in train is defined as (Xiang et al., 2015a): Fig. 17. Among the five data pairs, four pairs (Ct, 0, β) are the test results, r U) while the remaining pair (Ct, 0, β) = (0, 0) indicates the overturning β wd,ω =tan1 ω V =tan1[rω tan(β)] (10) moment coefficient of the train model equals to zero under no wind
condition. To fully make use of the experimentally obtained data sets (Ct, where rω denotes the reduction coefficient of wind speed by the wind
0, β), curve fitting is performed with the function proposed in Eq. (14) to barrier; ω denotes the porosity of the wind barrier and ω =30% and 50% find the relationship between the Ct, 0 and the yaw angle. The cois adopted in this study. β wd, ω represents the reduced yaw angle with the efficients a, b, c in Eq. (14) are determined via least square method, wind barrier and porosity of ω; the subscript wd indicates the reduced which can be subsequently used to predict the overturning moment coefficient of the train model without considering the wind barriers at yaw angle are obtained with considering the wind barriers.
any given yaw angle β.
According to Eq. (10), the vehicle overturning moment coefficient after the installation of wind barrier can be expressed by the overturning C t,0 (β)=asin2(β)+bsin(β)+c (14) moment coefficient excluding the wind barrier, the wind reduction coefficient rω and reduced yaw angle β wd, ω, as shown below: where, a, b and c are the fitting parameters. The parameters of the head) and tail vehicles are fitted by the experiments as shown in Fig. 17, and
C t,0 β wd,ω ) = 0.5ρ r2 M U t,0 2+ β w V d,ω 2 ) ×B2L (11) the parameter “adjusted R2” indicates the good fitting accuracy of the ω data. If the aerodynamic coefficient is defined by the incoming wind speed and Eq. (14) is divided by sin2(β), it can be transformed into the where, Ct, 0(β wd, ω) denotes the value of the overturning moment coef- Xiang’s Equation (Xiang et al., 2017a).
ficient without considering the wind barriers when the yaw angle is β wd, Second, for a candidate porous wind barrier with a prescribed height ω co ; n M si t, d e 0( r β in w g d, t ω h ) e d w e i n n o d t e b s a r t r h i e e r v s a w lu h e e n o f t h th e e y a o w ve a rt n u g r l n e i n is g β m wd o , m ω. e nt without o (H bt w a ) i n a n t d h e p o o v r e o r u t s u r r n at in io g ( m ω o ), m t e h n e t w co in e d ffi t c u i n en n t e , l C t t e , s w t d s ( a β r , e H fi w r , s ω t ) c , o a n t d d u i c f t fe e r d e n to t
Note that the vehicle overturning moment coefficient after the yaw angle β. The Ct, wd (β, Hw, ω) is calculated based on Eq. (8). In this installation of wind barrier can also be deduced from Eq. (8) as:
study, two wind barriers are selected as the candidate wind barriers, i.e.,
C t,wd (β,H w ,ω)= 0.5ρ M U t,w 2 d ( + β, V H 2 w) , × ω) B2L (12) o a n h e e w ig i h th t a o f h e 2 i . g 5 h m t o f a 2 n . d 5 a m p a o n r d o s a i t p y o r o o f u 5 s 0 r % at . i o T o h f e 3 t 0 e % st , r a e n s d u l t t h e is o s t h h o er w w n it i h n
Fig. 18 and Fig. 19. As shown in Fig. 18, the value of Ct after employing
Note that Mt, 0(β wd, ω) in Eq. (11) is equal to Mt, wd (β, Hw, ω) in Eq. the wind barrier with porosity of 30% is less than that with porosity of
(12), which can be eliminated. As a result, the vehicle overturning 50%.
moment coefficient after the installation of wind barrier, Ct, wd (β, Hw, Third, it is noted that the relationship between Ct, 0 (β wd, ω) and Ct, wd ω), can be expressed in terms of the vehicle overturning moment coef- (β, Hw, ω) is established via Eq. (13). With the test results of Ct, wd (β, Hw, ficient before the installation of wind barrier Ct, 0 (β wd, ω) at the reduced ω) in step 2, the Ct, 0 (β wd, ω) derived in step 1 and the reduced yaw angle yaw angle and the wind reduction coefficient rω, as: in Eq. (10), the only unknown parameter left in Eq. (13) is the wind r 2tan2β+1 ) reduction coefficient rω. The wind reduction coefficient rω is also ob-
C t,wd (β,H w ,ω)= ω tan2β+1 C t,0 β wd,ω (13) tained via least square method. The rω for the two candidate wind barriers with porosity of 30% and 50% are 0.3874 and 0.5341, respectively.
With Eq. (13), the relationship between the vehicle overturning The fitting results are shown in Figs. 18 and 19, indicating that the moment coefficient before and after the installation of the porous wind predictions via Eq. (13) are in the good agreement with the test results.
barrier is established through the use of wind reduction coefficient rw. In r30% <r50% indicates that the protective effect of the wind barrier other words, the wind reduction coefficient can also be treated as an with 30% porosity is better than that of the wind barrier with 50% indicator of the protective effect for a certain type of wind barrier. The porosity, which is consistent with the aforementioned discussions. As wind reduction coefficient is obtained through the following three steps. shown in Fig. 18, the error is large when the wind barrier porosity rate is
Fig. 17. Overturning moment coefficient of the vehicles without wind barrier| (U =8 m/s, 0 ≤β ≤50◦).
and without employing the porous wind barrier, is quantified via a wind speed reduction coefficient. The following conclusions are drawn from the present study.
(1) The protective effect of the wind barrier, with a height of 2.5 m and porosity of 50%, on the moving head and tail vehicle is investigated. It is found that the protective effect by the wind barrier on these two vehicles are quite different. The wind protection gets better at higher vehicle speed for the tail vehicle, while it is opposite for the head vehicle. During the wind tunnel test, it is interesting to note that the protective effect, ζ, of the tail vehicle reverses its sign under yaw angle of 35◦, suggesting the over protection of the wind barrier. However, the wind protection by the wind barrier on the tail vehicle is still excellent, since ζ is very close to 0. Overall, the protection provided by the wind barrier on the tail vehicle is better than that on the head vehicle, especially at high vehicle speed.
(2) The protective effects of wind barrier with the heigh of 0 m, 2.0 m, 2.5 m, and 3.0 m on the head vehicle are compared. It is found
Fig. 18. Overturning moment coefficient of the head vehicle. that the vehicle running safety is greatly improved after the installation of the wind barrier, as the wind barrier changes the position of attachment and separation points of airflow at the train top. In addition, there exists an optimum height for the wind barrier. In this study, both the wind barriers with the height of
2.5 m and 3.0 m could provide better protection than that with the height of 2.0 m. However, the wind barrier with the height of
2.5 m has better performance under the yaw angle between
35◦–50◦, thus is selected as the optimum wind barrier among the three candidate wind barriers.
(3) The protective effects of wind barrier with the various porosities on the head vehicle are compared. The experimental results indicate that a larger porosity results in larger pressure difference (acting upward) between the vehicle top and bottom surfaces, which leads to a larger vehicle lift force coefficient. Similarly, a larger porosity also leads to a larger vehicle side force coefficient.
(4) The wind speed reduction coefficient after the installation of the porous wind barrier is derived with available experimental data, which is capable of describing the relationship between the vehicle overturning moment coefficient with and without employing the porous wind barrier, with reasonable accuracy. In addition, the wind speed reduction coefficient enables fast pre-
Fig. 19. Overturning moment coefficient of the tail vehicle. diction of the vehicle overturning moment coefficient after the installation of porous wind barrier at any given yaw angle β,
30% and the yaw angle β <55◦, which may be due to the small space without conducting additional wind tunnel tests.
between the train and wind barrier.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
The study of the wind-vehicle-bridge coupling dynamic system shows that there is a good correlation between the dynamic response of
Huoyue Xiang: Conceptualization, Writing – original draft, Writing the vehicle and the aerodynamic force on the vehicle (Xiang et al., – review & editing, Supervision. Hao Hu: Software, Formal analysis,
2014). Meanwhile, it is also observed from Eq. (13) that, there is a good
Writing – original draft. Jin Zhu: Writing – original draft, Writing – correlation between the wind speed reduction coefficient and the review & editing, Supervision. Peng He: Validation, Data curation.
aerodynamic characteristics. Therefore, when optimizing the porosity of
Yongle Li: Resources, Supervision. Bing Han: Resources, Validation.
the wind barrier, the wind speed reduction coefficient can be used as the optimization objective, which can simplify the wind tunnel test conditions and reduce the number of wind tunnel tests. Declaration of competing interest
5. Conclusions The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
This paper presents a moving train wind tunnel test with particular the work reported in this paper.
focus on the aerodynamic characteristics of head and tail vehicles of high-speed train under the protection of the wind barrier for the first Acknowledgments time, based on a novel testing facility developed by the authors. The influence of wind speed and the height and porosity of the wind barriers The authors are grateful for the financial support from the National on the protective effect on the train is investigated comprehensively. Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant numbers 51778544,
Furthermore, the relationship between the vehicle overturning moment 51978589, 51908472), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central coefficient, an important indicator for vehicle safety evaluation, with Universities (Grant numbers 2682021CG014, 2682021CX012), China
Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Grant number 2019M663554), and
Department of Science and Technology of Sichuan Province (Grant test. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 179, 26–38. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
number 2020YJ0080). jweia.2018.05.012.
Mohebbi, M., Rezvani, M.A., 2019. Analysis of the effects of lateral wind on a high speed train on a double routed railway track with porous shelters. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod.
References 184, 116–127. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2018.11.011.
Mohebbi, M., Safaee, A.M., 2021. The optimum model determination of porous barriers
Baker, C.J., 1986. Train aerodynamic forces and moments from moving model in high-speed tracks. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Part F:
experiments. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 24, 227–251. https://doi.org/10.1016/0167- J. Rail Rapid Transit. https://doi.org/10.1177/0954409721995323,
095440972199532.
6105(86)90024-3. Ogueta-Guti´errez, M., Franchini, S., Alonso, G., 2014. Effects of bird protection barriers
Charuvisit, S., Kimura, K., Fujino, Y., 2004. Effects of wind barrier on a vehicle passing in on the aerodynamic and aeroelastic behaviour of high speed train bridges. Eng.
the wake of a bridge tower in cross wind and its response. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod.
92, 609–639. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2004.03.006. Struct. 81, 22–34. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engstruct.2014.09.035.
Ren, W., Duan, Q., Ma, C., Liao, H., Li, Q., 2019. Experimental investigation of the
Coleman, S.A., Baker, C.J., 1992. The reduction of accident risk for high sided road vehicles in cross winds. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 44, 2685–2695. https://doi.org/ protective effect of wind barriers on high-speed railway bridge in inland strong wind area. Adv. Struct. Eng. 13.
10.1016/0167-6105(92)90060-N.
Su, Yang, Xiang, Huoyue, Fang, Chen, Wang, Lei, Li, Yongle, 2017. Wind tunnel tests on
Deng, E., Yang, W., He, X., Zhu, Z., Wang, H., Wang, Y., Wang, A., Zhou, L., 2021.
flow fields of full-scale railway wind barriers. Wind Struct. 24, 171–184. https://doi.
Aerodynamic response of high-speed trains under crosswind in a bridge-tunnel org/10.12989/WAS.2017.24.2.171.
section with or without a wind barrier. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 210, 104502.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2020.104502. Tomasini, G., Giappino, S., Cheli, F., Schito, P., 2016. Windbreaks for railway lines: wind tunnel experimental tests. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Gu, H., Liu, T., Jiang, Z., Guo, Z., 2021. Experimental and simulation research on the
Part F: J. Rail Rapid Transit 230, 1270–1282. https://doi.org/10.1177/ aerodynamic effect on a train with a wind barrier in different lengths. J. Wind Eng.
0954409715596191.
Ind. Aerod. 214, 104644. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2021.104644.
Wang, Y., Guo, W., Xia, H., 2015. Numerical analysis of aerodynamic features of
Gu, H., Liu, T., Jiang, Z., Guo, Z., 2020. Research on the wind-sheltering performance of different forms of corrugated wind barriers on railway bridges. J. Wind Eng. Ind. porosity-optimized wind barriers and running safety of train. ISSN 5, 6.
Wilson, J.D., 1997. A field study of the mean pressure about a windbreak. Boundary-
Aerod. 201, 104166. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2020.104166.
Layer Meteorol. 85, 327–358. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1000582917218.
Hashmi, S.A., Hemida, H., Soper, D., 2019. Wind tunnel testing on a train model
Xiang, H., Li, Y., Chen, B., Liao, H., 2014. Protection effect of railway wind barrier on subjected to crosswinds with different windbreak walls. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod.
running safety of train under cross winds. Adv. Struct. Eng. 17, 1177–1187. https://
195, 104013. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2019.104013.
doi.org/10.1260/1369-4332.17.8.1177.
He Fang, D.X., Li, H., Shi, K., 2019. Parameter optimization for improved aerodynamic
Xiang, H., Li, Y., Chen, S., Hou, G., 2018. Wind loads of moving vehicle on bridge with performance of louver-type wind barrier for train-bridge system. J. Cent. South Univ.
26, 229–240. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11771-019-3996-8. solid wind barrier. Eng. Struct. 156, 188–196. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
engstruct.2017.11.009.
He, X., Zhou, L., Chen, Z., Jing, H., Zou, Y., Wu, T., 2019. Effect of wind barriers on the flow field and aerodynamic forces of a train–bridge system. Proceedings of the Xiang, H., Li, Y., Chen, S., Li, C., 2017a. A wind tunnel test method on aerodynamic
Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Part F: J. Rail Rapid Transit 233, 283–297. characteristics of moving vehicles under crosswinds. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 163,
15–23. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2017.01.013.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0954409718793220.
He, X.H., Zou, Y.F., Wang, H.F., Han, Y., Shi, K., 2014a. Aerodynamic characteristics of a Xiang, H., Li, Y., Liao, H., Li, C., 2017b. An adaptive surrogate model based on support vector regression and its application to the optimization of railway wind barriers.
trailing rail vehicles on viaduct based on still wind tunnel experiments. J. Wind Eng.
Ind. Aerod. 135, 22–33. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2014.10.004. Struct. Multidiscip. Optim. 55, 701–713. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00158-016-
1528-9.
He, X.H., Zou, Y.F., Wang, H.F., Han, Y., Shi, K., 2014b. Aerodynamic characteristics of a
Xiang, H., Li, Y., Wang, B., 2015b. Aerodynamic interaction between static vehicles and trailing rail vehicles on viaduct based on still wind tunnel experiments. J. Wind Eng.
Ind. Aerod. 135, 22–33. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2014.10.004. wind barriers on railway bridges exposed to crosswinds. Wind Struct. 20, 237–247.
https://doi.org/10.12989/WAS.2015.20.2.237.
Kozmar, H., Procino, L., Borsani, A., Bartoli, G., 2014. Optimizing height and porosity of roadway wind barriers for viaducts and bridges. Eng. Struct. 81, 49–61. https://doi. Xiang, H., Li, Y., Wang, B., Liao, H., 2015a. Numerical simulation of the protective effect of railway wind barriers under crosswinds. Int. J. Real. Ther. 3, 151–163. https:// org/10.1016/j.engstruct.2014.09.029.
doi.org/10.1080/23248378.2015.1054906.
Kozmar, H., Procino, L., Borsani, A., Bartoli, G., 2012. Sheltering efficiency of wind barriers on bridges. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 107 (108), 274–284. https://doi.org/ Xiong, X., Liang, X., Gao, G., Liu, T., 2006. Train aerodynamic characteristics in strong cross-wind on Lanzhou-Xinjiang railway line. J. Cent. S. Univ. 37, 1183–1188.
10.1016/j.jweia.2012.04.027.
Li, H., Chen, Z., Zhao, G., Lu, Z., 2011. Research on P62K box car’s lateral vibration offset https://doi.org/10.3969/j.issn.1672-7207.2006.06.032.
under strong winds. J. Railw. Sci. Eng. 8, 98–102. https://doi.org/10.3969/j. Xue, F., Han, Y., Zou, Y., He, X., Chen, S., 2020. Effects of wind-barrier parameters on dynamic responses of wind-road vehicle–bridge system. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod.
issn.1672-7029.2011.06.020.
206, 104367. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2020.104367.
Li, X., Tan, Y., Qiu, X., Gong, Z., Wang, M., 2021. Wind tunnel measurement of
Yan, J., Chen, T., Deng, E., Yang, W., Cheng, S., Zhang, B., 2021. Aerodynamic response aerodynamic characteristics of trains passing each other on a simply supported box girder bridge. Rail. Eng. Science 29, 152–162. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40534-021- and running posture analysis when the train passes a crosswind region on a bridge.
Appl. Sci. 11, 4126. https://doi.org/10.3390/app11094126.
00231-4.
Zhang, T., Guo, W., Du, F., 2017. Effect of windproof barrier on aerodynamic
Li, X.-Z., Wang, M., Xiao, J., Zou, Q.-Y., Liu, D.-J., 2018. Experimental study on performance of vehicle-bridge system. Procedia Eng. 199, 3083–3090. https://doi.
aerodynamic characteristics of high-speed train on a truss bridge: a moving model org/10.1016/j.proeng.2017.09.426.
15